# AI Melts ICE

AI Melts ICE is a web app designed to source and visualize predictions of ICE arrests in the US.
These predictions are generated by an LSTM neural-network trained on ICE arrest data (2014 - 2018)
from Syracuse's TRAC web API.

El pueblo unido jamás será vencido.

## Backend

### Getting started

Download [Python3](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

Download our Python dependencies.

```bash
pip3 install -r requirements
```

Start the REST API.

```bash
python3 main.py
```

Download the Syracuse TRAC ICE Arrests dataset *(optional)*:

```bash
python3 datasetgenerator.py
```

Train a ML model *(optional)*:

```bash
python3 ai.py
```

Evolve an optimal ML model *(optional but fun)*:

```bash
python3 evolve.py
```

### Structure

The backend is divided up into a number of files:

- `datasetgenerator.py`

>  Uses its `Syracuse` class to create a dataset of ICE arrests in the US and saves it to `data.csv`.

- `ai.py`

> Builds and trains an LSTM model on `data.csv`. It uses the model and dataset to predict future arrests and saves them to `predictions.csv`.


- `evolve.py`

> Leverages evolution to find the optimal model by evolving a population of deep learning models with a low test error.

- `main.py`

> Starts a RESTful API that serves the data in `predictions.csv`

### Dependencies:

- requests
- pandas
- Flask
- geopy
- keras==2.2.5
- Tensorflow==2.0.1
- progress


## Frontend

### Getting started

First, download [node and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

Download our JavaScript dependencies.

```bash
npm install
```

Start the [app](http://localhost:3000/) in development mode.

```bash
npm start
```

### Structure

The site is divided into two pages:

- `home.js`

> Home is the landing page. On ComponentDidMount, the range of dates is retrieved
from our API, and so is the current date's predictions. They are rendered on top
of the map in layers of clustered and unclustered circle/number combinations.
If the user clicks an unclustered point, a popup showing that county's
longitudinal data appears over it. In the header is a form to request county
data for a different month in the dataset.

- `about.js`

> About is a simple page that discribes the application.

### Dependencies

- react-bootstrap
- react-vis
- mapbox
- react-datepicker
